SL x snowflake guide (#5242)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/sl-snowflake-qs.md

import SLCourses from '/snippets/_sl-course.md';

<SLCourses/>

This quickstart guide is designed for dbt Cloud users using Snowflake as their data platform. It focuses on building and defining metrics, setting up the dbt Semantic Layer in a dbt Cloud project, and querying metrics in Google Sheets.

If you're using a data platform other than Snowflake, this guide can also be applicable to you. You can adapt the setup for your specific platform by following the account setup and data loading instructions detailed on the following pages:

- [BigQuery](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/bigquery?step=2) (Steps 2 - 5)
- [Databricks](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/databricks?step=2) (Steps 2 - 4)
- [Microsoft Fabric](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/microsoft-fabric?step=2) (Steps 2 - 3)
- [Redshift](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/redshift?step=2) (Steps 2 - 4)
- [Starburst Galaxy](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/starburst-galaxy?step=2) (Steps 2 - 5)

> 

Reviewer: consider changing how this ^ list is constructed. maybe linkout to the steps/sections?

- the "(Steps x - y)" strings become a maintenance burden
- the reader has to flip back and forth between tabs/windows

Author: good point!

Author: it's prob likely that some tab back and forth might happen (maybe fetchin the (step 2-5) content so the user never leaves the page is a longer term experiment). but I've used tabs for this

![Screenshot 2024-04-19 at 12 36 50](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/9d710469-bb37-4563-a3c4-87c3afac18c8)

1. Log in to your [trial Snowflake account](https://signup.snowflake.com).
2. In the Snowflake user interface (UI), click **+ Worksheet** in the upper right corner.
3. Select **SQL Worksheet** to create a new worksheet.

### Set up Snowflake environment

The data used here is stored as CSV files in a public S3 bucket and the following steps will guide you through how to prepare your Snowflake account for that data and upload it.

Create a new virtual warehouse, two new databases (one for raw data, the other for future dbt development), and two new schemas (one for `jaffle_shop` data, the other for stripe data).

1. Run the following SQL commands one by one by typing them into the Editor of your new Snowflake SQL worksheet to set up your environment.

2. Click **Run** in the upper right corner of the UI for each one:

```sql
-- Create a virtual warehouse named 'transforming'
create warehouse transforming;

-- Create two databases: one for raw data and another for analytics
create database raw;
create database analytics;

-- Within the 'raw' database, create two schemas: 'jaffle_shop' and 'stripe'
create schema raw.jaffle_shop;
create schema raw.stripe;
```

> ## Load data into Snowflake

Reviewer: this whole step page is very similar to the Snowflake QS. 

ideas:
- use a snippet/partial (single source) to relieve maintenance burden
- add as a prereq that "Snowflake QS guide must be completed".

Author: thanks Ly! this is teh same as the guide - will open an issue to create a partial!

Author: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/issues/5310

Now that your environment is set up, you can start loading data into it. You will be working within the raw database, using the `jaffle_shop` and stripe schemas to organize your tables.

1. Create customer table &mdash; First, delete all contents (empty) in the Editor of the Snowflake worksheet. Then, run this SQL command to create the customer table in the `jaffle_shop` schema:

  ```sql
  create table raw.jaffle_shop.customers
  ( id integer,
    first_name varchar,
    last_name varchar
  );
  ```

>   You should see a ‘Table `CUSTOMERS` successfully created.’ message.

Reviewer: consider removing this line. seems low value and superfluous (for conciseness and faster scanning)

Author: totally understand your point, however when i went through the training, i feel in limbo not knowing what success looked like and this helps the user validate their steps, which training agreed with too.

Author: going to resolve the other suggestions as i have the same response to them 🙏

2. Load data &mdash; After creating the table, delete all contents in the Editor. Run this command to load data from the S3 bucket into the customer table:

  ```sql
  copy into raw.jaffle_shop.customers (id, first_name, last_name)
  from 's3://dbt-tutorial-public/jaffle_shop_customers.csv'
  file_format = (
      type = 'CSV'
      field_delimiter = ','
      skip_header = 1
      );
  ```

>   You should see a confirmation message after running the command.

Reviewer: same as prev comment. 

consider removing lines like this. seems low value and superfluous (for conciseness and faster scanning)

- Each semantic model will contain zero, one, or many foreign or unique entities used to connect to other entities
- Each semantic model may also contain dimensions, measures, and metrics &mdash; this is what actually gets fed into and queried by your downstream BI tool.

In the following steps, semantic models help us define how to interpret the data related to orders. It includes entities (like ID columns serving as keys for joining data), dimensions (for grouping or filtering data), and measures (for data aggregations).

1. Create a new file `models/metrics/fct_orders.yml` 
2. Add the following code to that newly created file:

```yaml
semantic_models:
  - name: orders
    description: |
      Order fact table. This table’s grain is one row per order.
    model: ref('fct_orders')

```

The following section will explain [dimensions](/docs/build/dimensions), [entities](/docs/build/entities), and [measures](/docs/build/measures) in more detail, showing how they each play a role in semantic models.

- [Entities](#entities) act as unique identifiers (like ID columns) that link data together from different tables.

> - [Dimensions](#dimensions) allow us to categorize and filter data, making it easier to organize.

Reviewer: unclear who is `us` in this bullet

> - [Measures](#measures) help us calculate data, providing valuable insights through aggregation.

Reviewer: same thing here

      measure: order_total
  - name: "order_count"
    description: "number of orders"
    type: simple
    label: "order_count"
    type_params:
      measure: order_count
  - name: large_orders
    description: "Count of orders with order total over 20."
    type: simple
    label: "Large Orders"
    type_params:
      measure: order_count
    filter: |
      {{ Dimension('order_id__order_total_dim') }} >= 20
  # Ratio type metric
  - name: "avg_order_value"
    label: "avg_order_value"
    description: "average value of each order"
    type: ratio
    type_params:
      numerator: order_total
      denominator: order_count
  # Cumulative type metrics
  - name: "cumulative_order_amount_mtd"
    label: "cumulative_order_amount_mtd"
    description: "The month to date value of all orders"
    type: cumulative
    type_params:
      measure: order_total
      grain_to_date: month
  # Derived metric
  - name: "pct_of_orders_that_are_large"
    label: "pct_of_orders_that_are_large"
    description: "percent of orders that are large"
    type: derived
    type_params:
      expr: large_orders/order_count
      metrics:
        - name: large_orders
        - name: order_count
```

> 

Author: notes for me: might be good to add a screenshot to show what success looks like

![Screenshot 2024-04-12 at 17 15 52](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/10f1c084-7ab4-4ab7-9e3e-53db226ef9f0)

## Add second semantic model to your project

Great job, you've successfully built your first semantic model! It has all the required elements: entities, dimensions, measures, and metrics.

Let’s expand your project's analytical capabilities by adding another semantic model in your other marts model: `dim_customers.yml`.

After setting up your orders model:

1. Create the file `models/metrics/dim_customers.yml`.
2. Copy the following query into the file and click **Save**.

```yaml
semantic_models:

>   - name: dim_customers

Author: i thnk this should be 'customers' not dim right @MichelleBaird-DBT ?

>   - name: dim_customers

Author: ```suggestion
  - name: customers
```

    defaults:
      agg_time_dimension: most_recent_order_date
    description: |
      semantic model for dim_customers

>     model: ref('dim_customers')

Author: ```suggestion
    model: ref('customers')
```

>     model: ref('dim_customers')

Author: same here (customers not dim)

        type_params:
          time_granularity: day
    measures:
      - name: count_lifetime_orders
        description: Total count of orders per customer.
        agg: sum
      - name: lifetime_spend
        agg: sum
        description: Gross customer lifetime spend inclusive of taxes.
      - name: customers
        expr: customer_id
        agg: count_distinct

metrics:
  - name: "customers"
    description: "Count of customers"
    type: simple
    label: "customers"
    type_params:
      measure: customers
  - name: "customers_with_orders"
    label: "customers_with_orders"
    description: "Unique count of customers placing orders"
    type: simple
    type_params:
      measure: customers
```

This semantic model uses simple metrics to focus on customer metrics and emphasizes customer dimensions like name, type, and order dates. It uniquely analyzes customer behavior, lifetime value, and order patterns.

## Test and query metrics

<!-- The below snippets (or reusables) can be found in the following file locations in the docs code repository) 

https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/website/snippets/_sl-test-and-query-metrics.md
-->

<TestQuery />

> 

Author: i think before this, we should make it clear the user has to commit changes and merge the pr.

import ConfigMetric from '/snippets/_sl-configure-metricflow.md';
import TestQuery from '/snippets/_sl-test-and-query-metrics.md';
import ConnectQueryAPI from '/snippets/_sl-connect-and-query-api.md';
import RunProdJob from '/snippets/_sl-run-prod-job.md';
import SlSetUp from '/snippets/_new-sl-setup.md'; 

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import DeprecationNotice from '/snippets/_sl-deprecation-notice.md';

<DeprecationNotice />
 
 </VersionBlock>

## Introduction

The dbt Semantic Layer, powered by [MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow), simplifies setting up key business metrics. It centralizes definitions, avoids duplicate code, and ensures easy access to metrics in downstream tools. MetricFlow helps manage company metrics with ease, allowing you to define metrics in your dbt project and query them in dbt Cloud with [MetricFlow commands](/docs/build/metricflow-commands).

import SLCourses from '/snippets/_sl-course.md';

<SLCourses/>

This quickstart guide is designed for dbt Cloud users using Snowflake as their data platform. It focuses on building and defining metrics, setting up the dbt Semantic Layer in a dbt Cloud project, and querying metrics in Google Sheets.

> If you're using a data platform other than Snowflake, this guide is also applicable to you. To adapt the setup for your specific platform, follow the account setup and data loading instructions detailed on the following pages:

Author: ```suggestion
If you're using a data platform other than Snowflake, this guide is also applicable to you. You can adapt the setup for your specific platform by following the account setup and data loading instructions detailed on the following pages:
```

  - Before proceeding, you will need to select a cloud provider and region. For this setup, all cloud providers and regions will work so choose whichever you’d like.
- Basic understanding of SQL and dbt (meaning you either used dbt before or completed the [dbt Fundamentals](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) course).

### What you'll learn

This guide will cover the following topics:

- Create a new Snowflake worksheet and set up your environment
- Load sample data into your Snowflake account
- Connect dbt Cloud to Snowflake
- Build out an example dbt Cloud project
- Create a semantic model in dbt Cloud
- Define metrics in dbt Cloud
- Test and query metrics in dbt Cloud
- Run a production job in dbt Cloud
- Set up dbt Semantic Layer in dbt Cloud
- Connect and query metrics with Google Sheets

## Create new Snowflake worksheet and set up environment

1. Log in to your trial Snowflake account.
2. In the Snowflake user interface (UI), click **+ Worksheet** in the upper right corner.
3. Select **SQL Worksheet** to create a new worksheet.

> ADD IMAGE HERE

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Set up Snowflake environment

The data used here is stored as CSV files in a public S3 bucket and the following steps will guide you through how to prepare your Snowflake account for that data and upload it.

> 1. Create a new virtual warehouse, two new databases (one for raw data, the other for future dbt development), and two new schemas (one for `jaffle_shop` data, the other for stripe data). To do this, run the following SQL commands one by one. Type them into the Editor of your new Snowflake SQL worksheet to set up your environment.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a new virtual warehouse, two new databases (one for raw data, the other for future dbt development), and two new schemas (one for `jaffle_shop` data, the other for stripe data).

1. Run the following SQL commands one by one by typing them into the Editor of your new Snowflake SQL worksheet to set up your environment.
```

sidebar_label: "Quickstart with the dbt Semantic Layer and Snowflake"
meta:
  api_name: dbt Semantic Layer APIs
icon: 'guides'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['Semantic Layer', 'Snowflake', 'dbt Cloud','Quickstart']
keywords: ['dbt Semantic Layer','Metrics','dbt Cloud', 'Snowflake', 'Google Sheets']
level: 'Intermediate'
recently_updated: true
---

<!-- The below snippets (or reusables) can be found in the following file locations in the docs code repository) -->
import CreateModel from '/snippets/_sl-create-semanticmodel.md';
import DefineMetrics from '/snippets/_sl-define-metrics.md';
import ConfigMetric from '/snippets/_sl-configure-metricflow.md';
import TestQuery from '/snippets/_sl-test-and-query-metrics.md';
import ConnectQueryAPI from '/snippets/_sl-connect-and-query-api.md';
import RunProdJob from '/snippets/_sl-run-prod-job.md';
import SlSetUp from '/snippets/_new-sl-setup.md'; 

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import DeprecationNotice from '/snippets/_sl-deprecation-notice.md';

<DeprecationNotice />
 
 </VersionBlock>

## Introduction

> The dbt Semantic Layer, powered by [MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow), simplifies setting up key business metrics. It centralizes definitions, avoids duplicate code, and ensures easy access to metrics in downstream tools. MetricFlow helps manage company metrics with ease, allowing you to define metrics in your dbt project and query them in dbt Cloud with [MetricFlow commands](/docs/build/metricflow-commands).

Author: ```suggestion
The [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl), powered by [MetricFlow](/docs/build/about-metricflow), simplifies setting up key business metrics. It centralizes definitions, avoids duplicate code, and ensures easy access to metrics in downstream tools. MetricFlow helps manage company metrics with ease, allowing you to define metrics in your dbt project and query them in dbt Cloud with [MetricFlow commands](/docs/build/metricflow-commands).
```

-->

<TestQuery />

## Run a production job

<!-- The below snippets (or reusables) can be found in the following file locations in the docs code repository) 

https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/website/snippets/_sl-run-prod-job.md
-->

<RunProdJob/>

<details>

<summary>What’s happening internally?</summary>
- Merging the code into your main branch allows dbt Cloud to pull those changes and builds the definition in the manifest produced by the run. <br />
- Re-running the job in the deployment environment helps materialize the models, which the metrics depend on, in the data platform. It also makes sure that the manifest is up to date.<br />
- The Semantic Layer APIs pulls in the most recent manifest and allows your integration information to extract metadata from it.
</details>

## Set up dbt Semantic Layer

<!-- The below snippets (or reusables) can be found in the following file locations in the docs code repository) 

https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/current/website/snippets/_new-sl-setup.md
-->

<SlSetUp/>

## Connect and query with Google Sheets

> <!-- The below snippets (or reusables) can be found in the following file locations in the docs code repository) 

Author: this isn't something we do but i've added a comment on the snippet location to help future contributions find the snippet when trying to propose changes.
